{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red86\green77\blue133;\red0\green0\blue191;\red147\green60\blue116;
\red0\green115\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 SwingOSC \'d0 Java-based cross-platform GUI classes\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf2 last mod: 01-oct-06 sciss\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs42 \cf2 SwingOptions
\f2\b0\fs18 \cf3 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 SwingOptions encapsulates the commandline options for a 
\f0\b [\ul SwingOSC\ulnone ]
\f1\b0  server app within an object. This makes it convienent to launch multiple servers with the same options, or to archive different sets of options, etc. Every SwingOSC has an instance of SwingOptions created for it if one is not passed as the options argument when the SwingOSC object is created. (This is the case for example with the default SwingOSC which is created at startup.)\
\
A SwingOSC's instance of SwingOptions is stored in its 
\f2\fs20 \cf3 options
\f1\fs24 \cf0  instance variable, which can be accessed through corresponding getter and setter methods.\
\

\f0\b Note: 
\f1\b0 A SwingOptions' instance variables are translated into commandline arguments when a SwingOSC server app is booted. Thus a running server must be rebooted before changes will take effect.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 Instantiation
\fs30 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
	Method signature:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs20 \cf0 		\cf4 <myOptions> \cf0 = SwingOptions.new;\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 		\
	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 Instance Variables (The Options)
\fs30 \cf0 \ul \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone 	\
The following instance variables can be changed through getter and setter methods. Note that the defaults listed below only apply to newly created instances of SwingOptions. The options for the default server may have been changed at startup in Main-startup or in ~/scwork/startup.rtf.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs18 \cf0 	
\fs20 protocol 	: \cf3 (Symbol)\cf0  \cf5 \\tcp \cf4 or\cf5  \\udp		
\f1\fs24 \cf0 communications protocol used. default is 
\f2\fs20 \cf5 \\tcp
\fs18 \cf0 \
	
\fs20 loopBack	: \cf3 (Boolean)\cf0 				
\f1\fs24 whether to limit communication to the local computer. default is 
\f2\fs20 \cf3 true
\f1\fs24 \cf0 .
\f2\fs20 \
	initGUI	: \cf3 (Boolean)\cf0 				
\f1\fs24 default is 
\f2\fs20 \cf3 true
\f1\fs24 \cf0 .
\f2\fs18 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Note that the socket port is determined from the 
\f2\fs20 \cf3 NetAddr
\f1\fs24 \cf0  object used to create the server. The application path is determined from the 
\f2\fs20 \cf3 program
\f1\fs24 \cf0  field in the server.}